_pages/research.md, before:

---
layout: archive
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
---

Brain and Auditory Input in Children with Hearing Loss
======

**The role of brain plasticity in auditory and langauge development.**
Childhood is considered a sensitive period of development. Within a certain time window, children’s developmental processes are very sensitive to experience and, meanwhile, their brains adapt rapidly in response to environment by reorganizing their structure and function. The sensitive developmental process and the adaptive brain (also known as brain plasticity) not only bring children opportunities to develop, but also result in increased vulnerabilities. In other words, children with adequate environmental support develop rapidly, while those who lack support fall behind their age mates or even show a permanent delay.

One area of research has focused on the association between auditory experience and brain plasiticity, specifically in children with hearing loss.  While previous studies have investigated this association at a group level by comparing children with hearing loss and those with normal hearing, much less is known about the relationship at the individual level. Recent findings implies that individual differences in brain structure may not only reflect past auditory experience but also serve as a neural signature to predict further language development effectively.

**The project that I am working on.**
I investigated the relatinoship between the extent of auditory input and cortical structural reorganization in children with sensorineural hearing loss. I found that children with better residual hearing have larger gray matter volume at the primary auditory cortex, and this effect is moderated by their experience of hearing aid use. Furthermore, the use of hearing aids for up to one year may preserve the auditory cortex of children with hearing loss, especially for those with worse residual hearing. However, this beneficial effect does not persist beyond one year. 

These findings underscore the importance of early intervention and fitting of hearing aids and cochlear implants to take advantage of neural preservation. By understanding the complex relationship between brain and behavior, we can better support the development of children with hearing loss and ensure that they have every opportunity to thrive.

Please find more details in the following articles:

1. [The Degree of Hearing Loss Moderates the Benefit of Amplification in Preventing Children’s Cortical Structural Changes.](https://psyarxiv.com/nea72)

2. The Amount of Hearing Input Affects the Plasticity of Auditory Cortex in Children with Hearing-loss: A Preliminary Study. (Will be available soon.)

Since the human brain can be modulated by personal experience, the brain function and anatomy can reflect a summation of modulation through various environmental factors and serves as a relatively objective factor to predict individual development. Therefore, I am also trying to build a model using neural factors to predict the speech and language development in children with cochlear implants. I hope the model could identify the ones who may receive limited benefit from cochlear implants, so that parents and clinicians can offer necessary interventions beforehand. 


Social interactive behaviors
======

**Why we use hyperscanning technique to investigate social interactive behaviors?**
The first question would be 'what is hyperscanning?' Hyperscanning is a relatively noval technique that is able to record the neural activations from two or more brians simultaneously. It can be applied via several neuroimaging techniques such as fMRI, EEG, and fNIRS. Taking the advantage of this 'simultaneous recording', we are able to examine how people's brains interact with each other in a social interactive senario. A large number of studies have demonstrated that individuals synchronized their neural activations (i.e., interpersonal neural synchronization) during a successful coversation, coordination, and cooperation. 

**What did I find?**
I used the hyperscanning technique to record the neural activity from two individuals when they had a five-minute speed-dating under natural conditions. I found that the interpersonal neural synchronization between the two individuals could predict whether they want to develop a romantic relationship with each other. And this interpersonal neural syncrhonization seems to be more related to social attractions rather than physical attractions rated by the daters.

Please find more details in the following articles:

[Interpersonal neural synchronization could predict the outcome of mate choice.](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0028393221003651?via%3Dihub)


Microstructure of the human brain
======

To be updated...

Commit message:

microstructure of this brain region of the golf players was better proliferated than that of control participants. In addition, this myeloarchitectonic plasticity was positively related to golfing proficiency. Our study has manifested that myeloarchitectonic plasticity could be induced by exercise, and thus, shed light on the potential benefits of exercise on brain health and cognitive enhancement.

_pages/research.md, after:

---
layout: archive
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
---

Brain and Auditory Input in Children with Hearing Loss
======

**The role of brain plasticity in auditory and langauge development.**
Childhood is considered a sensitive period of development. Within a certain time window, children’s developmental processes are very sensitive to experience and, meanwhile, their brains adapt rapidly in response to environment by reorganizing their structure and function. The sensitive developmental process and the adaptive brain (also known as brain plasticity) not only bring children opportunities to develop, but also result in increased vulnerabilities. In other words, children with adequate environmental support develop rapidly, while those who lack support fall behind their age mates or even show a permanent delay.

One area of research has focused on the association between auditory experience and brain plasiticity, specifically in children with hearing loss.  While previous studies have investigated this association at a group level by comparing children with hearing loss and those with normal hearing, much less is known about the relationship at the individual level. Recent findings implies that individual differences in brain structure may not only reflect past auditory experience but also serve as a neural signature to predict further language development effectively.

**The project that I am working on.**
I investigated the relatinoship between the extent of auditory input and cortical structural reorganization in children with sensorineural hearing loss. I found that children with better residual hearing have larger gray matter volume at the primary auditory cortex, and this effect is moderated by their experience of hearing aid use. Furthermore, the use of hearing aids for up to one year may preserve the auditory cortex of children with hearing loss, especially for those with worse residual hearing. However, this beneficial effect does not persist beyond one year. 

These findings underscore the importance of early intervention and fitting of hearing aids and cochlear implants to take advantage of neural preservation. By understanding the complex relationship between brain and behavior, we can better support the development of children with hearing loss and ensure that they have every opportunity to thrive.

Please find more details in the following articles:

1. [The Degree of Hearing Loss Moderates the Benefit of Amplification in Preventing Children’s Cortical Structural Changes.](https://psyarxiv.com/nea72)

2. The Amount of Hearing Input Affects the Plasticity of Auditory Cortex in Children with Hearing-loss: A Preliminary Study. (Will be available soon.)

Since the human brain can be modulated by personal experience, the brain function and anatomy can reflect a summation of modulation through various environmental factors and serves as a relatively objective factor to predict individual development. Therefore, I am also trying to build a model using neural factors to predict the speech and language development in children with cochlear implants. I hope the model could identify the ones who may receive limited benefit from cochlear implants, so that parents and clinicians can offer necessary interventions beforehand. 


Social interactive behaviors
======

**Why we use hyperscanning technique to investigate social interactive behaviors?**
The first question would be 'what is hyperscanning?' Hyperscanning is a relatively noval technique that is able to record the neural activations from two or more brians simultaneously. It can be applied via several neuroimaging techniques such as fMRI, EEG, and fNIRS. Taking the advantage of this 'simultaneous recording', we are able to examine how people's brains interact with each other in a social interactive senario. A large number of studies have demonstrated that individuals synchronized their neural activations (i.e., interpersonal neural synchronization) during a successful coversation, coordination, and cooperation. 

**What did I find?**
I used the hyperscanning technique to record the neural activity from two individuals when they had a five-minute speed-dating under natural conditions. I found that the interpersonal neural synchronization between the two individuals could predict whether they want to develop a romantic relationship with each other. And this interpersonal neural syncrhonization seems to be more related to social attractions rather than physical attractions rated by the daters.

Please find more details in the following articles:

[Interpersonal neural synchronization could predict the outcome of mate choice.](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0028393221003651?via%3Dihub)


Microstructure of the human brain
======

Quantitative MRI (qMRI) estimate the brain macromolecular tissue volume (MTV) and quantitative longitudinal relxation time (T1) maps. These two measurements reflect cortical myeloarchitecture mapping from the microstructural perspective. I used this technique to examine the interhemispheric asymmetries in language-related regions in over one hundred adults. I found that the cortical myeloarchitecture of the inferior frontal areas is left lateralized, while that of the superior and middle temporal gyrus is right lateralized. Moreover, the leftward lateralization is associated with metalanguage skills. This study reveals for the first time a mixed pattern of myeloarchitectonic asymmetries, which calls for a general theory to accommodate the full complexity of principles underlying human hemispheric specialization.

In another project, I studied if exercise affects cortical structural palsticity at the fine-grainded myelination structure level. To this end, I compared the microstructrual cortical features between elite golf players and non-athelet control subjects. It revealed that microstructure of the left temporal pole in the golf players was better proliferated than that of control subjects. Besides, this myeloarchitectonic plasticity was positively related to golfing proficiency. This study has manifested that myeloarchitectonic plasticity could be induced by exercise, and thus, shed light on the potential benefits of exercise on brain health and cognitive enhancement.
